# 1.1 What is EFAK
## 1.1.1 Preface
EFAK (Eagle For Apache Kafka, previously known as Kafka Eagle). This topic provides a high-level look at EFAK, the EFAK process, and EFAK features. It’s a good place to start if you want to learn more about EFAK software. To jump right in, refer to [Getting started](../1.Introduction/2.GettingStarted.md).

[EFAK](https://github.com/smartloli/EFAK) is open source visualization and management software. It allows you to query, visualize, alert on, and explore your metrics no matter where they are stored. In plain English, it provides you with tools to turn your kafka cluster data into beautiful graphs and visualizations.

After installed EFAK like you do in Getting started, there are many possible things you might do next. It all depends on your needs and your use case.

## 1.1.2 KSQL
KSQL your kafka topic data through `ad-hoc` queries and dynamic drilldown. Able to quickly read message records in kafka topic.

Refer to [KSQL](../3.Quick Start/7.KSQL.html) for more information.

## 1.1.3 Alerts
If you are using EFAK alerting, then you can have alerts sent through a number of different alert notifiers, including `DingDing`, `WeChat`, `Email`, or `Webhook`.

Alert hooks allow you to create different notifiers with a bit of code if you prefer some other channels of communication. Visually define alert rules for your most important metrics.

## 1.1.4 Configure
If you are a EFAK administrator, then you will want to thoroughly familiarize yourself with [EFAK configuration](../2.Installation/4.Configuration.md) options.

Configuration covers both config files and environment variables. You can set up default ports, logging levels, zookeeper address, kafka security etc.
