# 1.Requirements

## 2.1.1 Overview

This page lists the minimum hardware and software requirements to install EFAK.

To run EFAK, you must have a supported operating system, hardware that meets or exceeds minimum requirements, a supported database, and a supported browser.

## 2.1.2 Supported operating systems

The following operating systems are supported for EFAK installation:

* Linux
* macOS
* Windows

{% hint style="info" %}
We recommend that you install EFAK on the Linux operating system.
{% endhint %}

## 2.1.3 Hardware recommendations

EFAK does not use a lot of resources and is very lightweight in use of memory and CPU.

* Minimum recommended memory: `2048` MB
* Minimum recommended CPU: `1`

Some features might require more memory or CPUs. Features require more resources include:

* Server side rendering of images
* Alerting
* Scheduler

## 2.1.4 Supported databases

EFAK requires a database to store its configuration data, such as users, data sources, and dashboards. The exact requirements depend on the size of the EFAK installation and features used.

EFAK supports the following databases:

* MySQL
* SQLite

By default, EFAK installs with and uses SQLite, which is an embedded database stored in the EFAK installation location.

## 2.1.5 Supported web browsers

EFAK is supported in the current version of the following browsers. Older versions of these browsers might not be supported, so you should always upgrade to the latest version when using EFAK:

* Chrome/Chromium
* Firefox
* Safari
* Microsoft Edge
* Internet Explorer 11

{% hint style="info" %}
Always enable JavaScript in your browser. Running EFAK without JavaScript enabled in the browser is not supported.
{% endhint %}
